---
title: Abstract
bibliography:
  - ref.bib
csl: harvard.csl
sidebar_position: 1
editor:
  render-on-save: false
suppress-bibliography: true
---




# Abstract

## *Green Filter: Designing an AI Companion to Help College Students Shop, Save, and Invest Sustainably*

The way we use money has an effect on the sustainability of our physical
world, biodiversity, climate, natural resources.

Shopping, saving and investing influence which companies are supported
and which companies lose market share.

College students in particular are concerned with climate change however
they are also busy and lack simple tools to make sustainable decisions.

This research ia focused on building simple user interfaces to gelp
college students align their sustainable values with convenience.

Digital Product Passports enable us to use information to reduce the
harmful effects of our consumption, money.

–

Everyday use of money such as shopping, saving, and investing have a
negative effect on the environment. Taking sustainable financial action
requires extensive time for research. It’s time-consuming to find
sustainability-focused companies in the midst of widespread
greenwashing. Even for highly motivated people, it’s difficult to know
what’s sustainable. College students in particular are the future of
every industry.

College students in particular show high levels of concern for climate
change.

in order to help students’ align concern for sustainability with
convenience.

This cross-disciplinary research focuses on Taiwanese college students’
attitudes towards money, AI, and sustainability. I use data-driven
interaction design to build transparency into opaque systems in order to
enable college students participate in sustainable financial activism.

Finally, I propose *interfaces* and *workflows* to see financial
interactions through the filter of sustainability. The major
contribution of the study is an interactive artefact: a design prototype
AI-assistant informed by design research.

**Keywords**: Climate Anxiety, Human-AI Interaction, Digital
Sustainability, Financial Activism, Transparency, Planetary Health
