---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Abstract

This story begins in August 2018 with Greta Thunberg going on a school strike for the climate, in front of the Swedish parliament Riksdag. Since then, inspired by her and pushed by their own environmental concerns, millions of people around the world, mostly from Generation Z and Millennials, have joined climate protests (The Guardian, 2019). Time magazine named Thunberg the 2019 person of the year for "creating a global attitudinal shift" (Time, 2019), and many voices of this new 'green generation' have since taken the world stage. But what apart from protesting can young people who want to protect the environment, exactly do?

One way to gain influence is to decide where to put our money - our spending and investments. In the institutional finance world, the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund started a divestment trend in 2019 by deciding to move over 1 trillion USD away from polluting companies. Universities like U. California have followed suit and made similar financial choices while others like Stanford are in decision gridlock. Sustainability makes money in 2020 and is foreseen to grow and show resilience to global disruptions like the COVID19 pandemic, with notably Blackrock, the largest investment fund in the world (Doorn, n.d.), releasing guidance reflecting their plans to shift their investments to vehicles that are measured on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance - however, change doesn't happen overnight.

As consumers, our financial decisions are also a vote towards the type of businesses we want to support. In the USA, UK, and Australia, Millennials are inheriting the largest amount of assets from their parents in the history of money (Turits, 2018). Given our combined power (I'm a Millennial) with Generation Z, who according to a First Insight study, are willing to pay more for sustainable products(FirstInsight, 2020), we might be able to push polluting companies towards greener practices - or starving them from cheap access to capital. It can be as mundane as choosing the next eco-friendly product instead of the polluting one we purchase in the supermarket - or it can go much further, by investing in the growth of the green, socially friendly companies, to become part of their potential (financial) success story. If we as consumers care about environmental issues, how might we best exclude polluting companies from our lives and invest in companies that put environmental compliance at the forefront of their activities? What is the user interface for making sustainable finance decisions? How can we make sure ESG is accessible to our everyday experience?

Design penetrates every industry horizontally and AI assistants are the growing user interface trend for both financial services (termed robo-advisors) providing cheaper financial analysis at scale with little to no human intervention, and for the youngest generations, providing an interactive experience through apps, chat, voice, and more, though the application of deep learning algorithms for both analyzing large sets of data to produce insights and communicating with users in increasingly natural (human-like) ways.

Given these four trends, namely 1) youth demand for sustainability, 2) ESG instruments, 3) intergenerational money transfer to Millennials, 4) AI user interface availability, I'm proposing my research project at the intersection of User Experience, Sustainable Finance, and Young Adult Demographics (aged 18-35). I'm looking for foresight into a future where interaction design ties together the experience of consumption and investing, in the right context and in line with users’ personal values, by providing relevant sustainable finance guidance. I'm exploring the potential for using AI assistants to help everyday consumers concerned with sustainability begin a deeper relationship with the companies they are buying from and create a pathway to become investors. To that end, I will use qualitative research methods (semi- structured interviews) with financial and interaction design experts, leading to a "wish list" of requirements and features, which then build the basis for a larger quantitative survey of potential users' preferences, including a choice experiment of the proposed features. Finally, the gathered data will be used for the development of a conceptual design prototype of the personal sustainable finance AI assistant.
