---
title: Conclusion
sidebar_position: 8
editor:
  render-on-save: false
suppress-bibliography: true
---




# Conclusion

Survey results from 900 college students across universities in the
Northern, Western, Southern and Eastern parts of Taiwan highlights the
concern among young adults regarding environmental degradation. However,
my survey results acknowledges the barriers these individuals face,
including a lack of tools and clear information, which hinders their
ability to contribute effectively to environmental sustainability.

Their preferences and attitudes.

In interaction design, it doesn’t matter how the system works in the
background. What’s important is understanding the mental model, the user
has of the system and tuning the design to fit that model.

College students are concerned with environmental issues but lack tools
to affect systemic change. This research introduces an AI companion to
help young adults engage in sustainable shopping, saving, and investing.

College students can set their *Intention* and the AI companion can help
them fulfill that intention in a variety of financial situation from
shopping to saving and investing.

“enabling data-driven decision making”

When will Bolt show CO2e emissions per every trip?

Sustainable finance data platform:

As long as humanity is a mono-planetary species, we have to come to
terms with the limitations of our home, Earth, which is becoming
increasingly urbanized.

“The study employed a mixed-methods approach, starting with a , followed
by . A survey of 900 college students across 21 universities in Taiwan
was then conducted to understand . The major contribution is the
interactive AI-assistant prototype, informed by the design research
findings.

Prototype informed by design research aims to empower young adults to
make informed decisions that align with their environmental values,
whether through sustainable shopping, saving, or investing.

In-person face-to-face testing with 32 students at 7 universities
provided additional changed in the app design. It allowed to better
understand the struggles students face with technology: old laptops,
slow wi-fi, lack of power plugs and dieing batteries.

Foster environmental stewardship through financial activism.

Finding green products and supporting companies making them

Supporting legislative changes

Track you consumption, saving, investing. Shift balance towards saving
and investing.

mixed-methods

Designing AI systems that are capable of translating complex
environmental data into actionable insights.

In conclusion, this research addresses the need for convenient tools to
enable college students to take sustainable financial actions in their
daily lives. By leveraging advancements in AI and data-driven
interaction design, the proposed AI companion aims to act as a
translation layer between complex environmental data and
human-comprehensible language. The prototype demonstrates how thoughtful
design can empower the next generation to align their consumption and
investment behaviors with their concern for the environment, driving
positive change through their financial choices.”

Drive companies to be more transparent with ESG data

Increase ESG accessibility

## RQ1: What design considerations should be addressed when designing an AI companion for college students integrating sustainability and finance?

***From Literature Review, User Survey, Expert Interviews, and User
Testing the Prototype.***

A comprehensive literature review in the interconnected economic
behavior and ecological sustainability underscores the critical role
that financial decisions play in impacting the planet’s health.

*Design for Visibility & Simplicity* Testers often overlooked the AI
analysis feature, thinking it was part of the website, not a 3rd party
service. The interface must make key actions obvious. Use prominent
announcements to announce new features (e.g. a pop‐up tour highlighting
what’s new). Minimize extra clicks: as one expert (Huang) noted, “people
are lazy… if it’s easier to get the information that I don’t have to
click a button, I will pay attention”. In short, design a streamlined UI
with clear one-step interactions and in-context prompts.

*Design for Intuitive Visuals & Feedback* Replace dense text with clear
graphics and simple ratings. Huang observed that users tune out long
reports but immediately grasp an icon or “eco score” (e.g. a polar bear
or 0–100 scale). Similarly, testers noticed numeric eco-scores more than
textual features. Thus, represent sustainability metrics as concise
visuals or scores, with brief tooltips explaining meaning.

*Design for Engaging Tone & Fun Elements* Use approachable language and
interactive cues. Experts advised avoiding jargon: e.g. change button
text from “Continue discussion” to a playful prompt to spark curiosity
and intriguing to capture user interest. Gamification (e.g. progress
bars, “unlocking” sustainable tips) may sustain engagement, given users’
limited patience for lengthy explanations.

*Design for Trust and Transparency* Students expressed moderate trust in
AI (survey results show many neutral-to-skeptical responses). To build
credibility, the companion must cite verifiable data (certifications,
carbon labels, etc.) rather than vague claims. For example, testers
distrusted offsetting alone (“I still feel like I’m not really doing it
right” when just buying carbon credits.), so the app should provide
concrete evidence of impact. Avoid taking ESG scores at face value –
include context (e.g. B Corp or supply-chain data) as advised by
literature. In practice, feature designs should highlight third-party
credentials (green certifications) and explain methodology to counter
skepticism.

*Design Mobile-First* For technical reasons the prototype testing was
done using laptop computers (Apple does not allow adding 3rd party
overlays on iOS apps the same way Google allows with Chrome Browser
Extensions). However, given 96% of students use smartphones (majority
iOS), mobile-first is a must, even given all the technical limitations.
The design should favor a mobile app or browser extension that
integrates with their existing shopping/payment tools. Survey clustering
suggests leveraging daily habits (shopping/savings apps) as entry
points. Ensure compatibility (notably, iOS imposes browser restrictions)
and consider platform-specific design (e.g. integrating with Momo app
interface as envisioned). Shopee was consistenly mentioned by testers
and could serve for the next round of testing instead of Momo.

## RQ2: How can AI companions support college students with sustainability knowledge in the context of financial decisions?

***From Literature Review, User Survey, Expert Interviews, and User
Testing the Prototype.***

*Contextualized Information at Point-of-Decision* Embed sustainability
data into shopping and investment flows. In prototype testing,
participants valued seeing hidden product info (ingredients,
manufacturing “history”) that they normally don’t encounter. For
example, revealing that a facial mask contained problematic chemicals
led a student to switch to an aloe-based alternative. This suggests the
AI should surface concise ecological/health facts (e.g. “contains X
chemical linked to…”) whenever users view a product. Similarly, in the
investment context the AI showed company ESG scores and stock info.
Users reacted positively: one noted, “Buying things is also an
investment… I can help you analyze if the money spent is good or bad”.
Thus, frame purchases as “investments” in sustainable companies to link
finance and ecology.

*Sustainable Alternatives and Comparisons* Provide actionable
recommendations. Testers frequently clicked a “Find Alternatives”
feature, and Cathy Wang confirms that students want alerts on “the most
dangerous products” to avoid. Accordingly, the companion should
automatically flag high-impact products in the user’s list and suggest
greener options or categories. In finance mode, it should compare
companies’ performance (e.g. “Company X is high-ESG, Company Y is not”)
so students can weigh investment choices. Survey data underscores this:
roughly one-third of respondents want pre-investment checks of company
eco-credentials (31% for certifications, 26% for consumer reviews) and
comparisons (26%) of environmental performance. The AI can fulfill these
by summarizing third-party eco-reports or consumer sentiments on
companies.

*Personal Sustainability Dashboard* Many students expressed interest in
tracking their own impact (25% wanted a monthly “eco-score” of
spending). Building on this, the app can maintain a simple personal
report (e.g. “Your spending this month saved X kg CO₂” or “you’re now
20% greener”). This aligns with providing “carbon score” feedback that
testers noticed. The dashboard should be succinct, using visuals
(progress bars, infographics) rather than verbose text, so students
quickly grasp progress (Huang’s scale idea).

*Educational Nudges & Explanations* Use the AI chat (or chat-like
prompts) to elaborate on sustainability concepts as needed. Although few
testers clicked the “Chat with AI” button during prototyping, it can
serve as a fallback for curious users. For example, when a student sees
a product’s green score, they could ask “Why?” and the AI could briefly
explain (“This brand was rated low because it uses high-carbon
packaging”, sort of like in ther earliest prototype). Encouraging
exploration without overwhelming users aligns with Audrey Tang’s insight
that youth are eager to engage but need clear, relatable contexts
(e.g. connecting a bubble-tea straw ban to personal habits). Overall,
the AI should act as an informed guide: contextualizing data, answering
“what-if” questions, and helping students internalize how their
financial choices affect sustainability.

## RQ3: What AI companion features do college students prioritize as the highest?

***From User Survey, Expert Interviews, and User Testing the
Prototype.***

*Eco-Impact Product Filters:* The highest-priority feature is
product-level sustainability comparison. In the survey, 63% of students
wanted to “see which products are most polluting so I can avoid them,””
far above other categories. This aligns with testing observations: Cathy
notes “the main feature…was to avoid the most…dangerous products” via an
alert on the shopping list. Accordingly, the companion should
prominently offer “sustainability filters” (e.g. sort products by carbon
footprint or toxin content) and alternative suggestions, just as users
clicked the “Find Alternatives” button in our prototype.

*Supply Chain Transparency:* Other top features relate to sourcing.
About 41% of respondents want to check product origin (e.g. local
vs. imported) and 40% want to know how eco-friendly the production
process is. Designing a simple icon or tag for “local” or “certified
eco-friendly factory” (as Chen‑Ying Huang recommends using recognizable
symbols) would meet these needs. Similarly, one-third favored an
“organic” product search. The prototype’s green-colored “Analysis” tab
(showing carbon emissions by product type) was also used by testers,
indicating interest in seeing how choices impact emissions cumulatively.

*Personal Eco-Score and History:* A quarter of students (25%) expressed
interest in a monthly report of their own eco-score. In testing,
participants took screenshots of the carbon-reduction analysis,
suggesting value in recording progress. We should include a lightweight
“eco-dashboard” feature: an overview of past decisions, scores, and
tips. Crucially, it must be eye-catching and concise (e.g. a single
visual per month) so students will actually review it.

*Sustainable Investing:* Many students expect the AI to support green
investing. Roughly 26–32% of respondents wanted to see company
eco-scores, certifications, or performance comparisons before investing.
Testers saw company ESG ratings and stock info (they asked “what is this
company’s stock code?”) and even got recommendations for similar
sustainable companies. Thus, the feature set should include an
investment tab with clear “sustainability ratings” for companies
alongside stock data, and suggestions of alternative stocks aligned with
the student’s values.

*Lower-Priority Features* Give the high usage of social media in Taiwan,
I was surpised community-related and social features ranked low in the
survey. Only around 12% of the respondents wanted social networking with
eco-peers, and indeed testers rarely engaged even with the AI’s chat
option to ask more questions. These findings suggest focusing
development effort on concrete decision aids (filtering, scoring,
recommendations) rather than social networking or open-ended chat.

## Final Takeaway

I have integrated quantitative survey trends with qualitative insights
from testing and interviews. For instance, strong survey interest in
product comparisons (63%) is consistent with testers clicking the “Find
Alternatives” feature and experts (Huang, Wang) emphasizing clear
eco-indicators. By aligning the AI companion’s design closely with the
above patterns: favoring concise visual info, high discoverability of
features, and actionable eco-insights, I can better meet student needs,
providing sustainable financial decision support exactly at the right
context and the right time.

Even if college students don’t have enough money to affect companies
directly, they can demand financial tools work better (higher baseline
for sustainability) to galvanize and encourage institutional investment
into sustainability and encreasing ESG accessibility. Influencing
business governance is the main point of leverage. G-\>S-\>E, not
E-\>S-\>G. Aggregating Consumer Demand, Amplifying Consumer Influence,
Enhancing Market Standards. Design is Political Action, Eco-Design
Democratizes ESG Accessibility.
